IBIS-Server
License: LGPL
Technology: Java, Jetty Servlet

DESCRIPTION
An experimental platform originally created for the purpose of "federating" IBIS conversations
from platforms such as Compendium, DebateGraph, Deliberatorium, Cohere, and others. As
an experimental platform, it is, by and large, incomplete in terms of its implementation
potential for that specific mission.

The PDF file IBIS-Format.pdf describes a candidate XML file format which can satisfy the
equivalent of a "least common denominator" among the four platforms for which this work
originally anticipated. 

A credentialed user can download a zip file of the IBIS Server Client from the website
this server creates.

The fact that there is the ability to send and receive files from a desktop client means that
this platform offers a limited kind of Web Services protocol.

At the same time, it offers a base on which an interesting form of collaboration among
varieties of structured conversation platforms could interoperate.

Current Capabilities
Originally boots with a default administrative credentials. 
Administrators are the only means by which new users can be granted credentials.
Once a user is granted credentials (login and password), that user is then free
	to log into the desktop IBIS Server Client using those credentials and
	upload or download files.
FILE TYPE CODES used at IBIS Server Client
	Compendium 		= cm
	Debategraph 	= dg
	Cohere 			= co
	Deliberatorium	= dm

Current Limitations
1- Does not provide clean path of error messaging to desktop client
2- No Administrative way to delete a Compendium XML file reference from the RDBMS
3- Internal handling of related materials, e.g. the client zip file, other documents,
	is presently hard-wired; could easily be changed to using the /data/index.html
	as a means by which any document could be referenced.
4- There are certain issues related to Compendium XML exports: they are exported in
	UTF-16 format, which means they do not always appear as clean text when examined
	in windows with this software. That is not necessarily an issue, certainly a nuisance.
	But, there are additional classes in the project, not presently used, which parse
	those files for other eventual uses, such as displaying conversations at the website,
	searching and indexing them, and so forth. Occasional experiments have discovered
	issues related to UTR-16. They are solvable. The class CommonImportPullParser exists
	for that purpose. Its use opens one other issue.
5- CommonImportPullParser is not yet skilled at detecting the conversation's root node,
	especially when some conversations do not resolve to a single root node. Work done in
	other projects evolves solutions to that. This class may not benefit; it warrants
	testing and further evolution. That class will be useful when the server is extended
	to other use cases.
	
Debugging Notes
There are two Derby databases, each in the webapps/ROOT/data/ directory.
	One is the directory "ibisusers", the other is "ibisfiles".
	On initial boot of the system, if those two directories exist, there is the risk of
	an SQL Exception which says the "file already exists" referring to the directory.
	So on initial bootup, those two directories should not exist.
	If you decide to toss away a database to start fresh, toss out the entire directory.
	The code contains lots of debugging log statements to track this issue.
	
USAGE:
This is an Eclipse project. To use it otherwise, a suitable Ant build file will be needed;
a build.xml exists, in which case, it creates a server jar file with replaces classes.
it can be converted to a Maven project if desired.

The directory layout is that of a Jetty Servlet. The system must compile classes into
the /webapps/ROOT/WEB-INF/classes/ directory.

There are certain properties in the file /webapps/ROOT/WEB-INF/core-portal-props.xml which
related to a default administrator as user. They can be configured to suit.

To boot the platform, boot either run.bat or run.sh.
Login as default administrator.
Use the Administrator Veiw to add yourself as a user. Add other users as needed.

When files are uploaded from a desktop client, they will show up on the Files list
of the front page.
	